## Trace endpoint

The trace endpoint is designed to enable developers to _trace_ or _observe_ conversational history, where history is represented as fine-grained and low-level actions. This endpoint will be invoked at the end of each event which EBA proccesses. Developers will find two parameters associated with the input for this action:
  
  - `version` -- an integer counter representing the current version of your conversation's state. Each event which EBA processes will increment this counter. The start event is version 1, with subsequent events or questions incrementing this value.
  
  - `actions` -- a list of actions detailing the operations EBA committed in order to process the current event. Note that actions here do __not__ denote _semantic actions_, although some actions will be the result of _semantic actions_. Rather, these are the machine level actions which EBA commits in order to construct your conversational state or information space. 

Each action is represented as a JSON object with the following properties:

```
{
  name (string):      the name of the action, e.g. machine:PlaceEvent,
  time (number):      an optional metric denoting the POSIX time,
  links (array): [    a list of links, where each link is represented as a pair [link ID, link]
    [
      (string):       link ID,
      (object):       link (can be null)
    ]
  ],
  nodes (array): [    a list of nodes, where each node is represented as a pair [node ID, node]
    [
      (string):       node ID,
      (object):       node (can be null)
    ]
  ]
}
```

Each link object represents the connection between nodes in information space. A link has the following format:

```
{
  source (string):   the ID of a source node which links points to,
  target (string):   the ID of a target node which a links points to
}
```

Other fields of a link are not used by EBA and always set to default values.

Each node object encodes various low level data, e.g. concepts, data, tokens, etc... A node has the following format:

```
{
  name (string):    the name of the node,
  seqn (number):    sequence number associated with a node, an integer,
  tags (array):     tags associated with a node, a list of strings,
  score (number):   the score associated with a node,
  data (object): {
    version (number):  a numeric version of the node which usually indicates which conversation this node belongs to, 
    type (string):     a node type (can be 'concept', 'data', 'token', or ''),
    names (array):     a list of strings which represent the concepts hierarchy for a given node (only set for 'data' nodes),
    meta:              a meta information associated with a node (the format is not specified),
    content:           an actual data associated with a node (the format is not specified)
  }
}
```

Additionally, developers should note that, given that this endpoint is about observing data, it carries a read-only semantic. Consequently, the output generated by this action is not used in any processing. There is no strict interface requirement on what can be returned from this action, as its value is effectively discarded. In the case of short term storage, one must also note that this endpoint is processed asynchronously. Consequently, there is no garuntee that something written to short term storge will be available in time for a later action. We do not recommend developers to implement any _write_ behavior in this endpoint, except to pass data to external systems over the network.
