This is the public home of the Watson Embedded Business Assistant ("EBA"). EBA is an AI framework comprised of a proprietary machine reasoning core, generic & industry domain-specific business agents, and an interactive user experience. 

## Brief History of EBA ## 

EBA began in 2016 as a proof of concept. The aim was to create a business practioner-aware reasoning machine that removed the fragility and human-effort required to craft dialog flows using pre-crafted intents and related actions based on predicate operations. We recognized that in order to achieve a useful AI, it would need to divorce the developer from typical learning, optimization, and enhancement; in it's place would be an always on assistant that would observe the behaviors and actions of the human within their business application context.

Once we established the domain-agnostic design of the reasoning core, we crafted a semantic ontology layer using a standards-based approach (OWL 2.0). This layer allowed us to craft domain-specific ontologies used to teach the reasoning core the language of Commerce, Marketing and Supply Chain (leveraging the business experts within IBM Watson Customer Engagement). This logical layer is the ground truth upon which the reasoning core operates-- briding inbound human crafted questions and action with the subordinate APIs (representing the physical layer of system data and functions). 

What we found through these early years of EBA engineering was a profound means with which to deliver total one-to-one application experiences for the business practitioner.  Whereas customers may select best of breed vendors to run their retail operations, EBA functions as the over the top experience linking cross functional processes and data across disparate vendors within clouds or on-premise. Much in the same way retailers attempt to create one-to-one personalized experiences for their customers, EBA was becoming the means to create one-to-one management experiences for the business practitioners across any domain.

We have now opened up this user experience, along with a base set of contributing agents, so our fellow engineers can craft custom AI-driven business experiences for their use cases. Please explore our public repository for articles and deeper dives on what powers EBA.

## EBA Constructions ##

EBA borrows from many well-established machine reasoning techniques dating back to the 1980s and later. We've attracted a core group of engineers that have taken these concepts and greatly expanded on them through elegant functional design. In fact, EBA core was built using Haskell. Domain-agent extensions can be written in any language thanks to IBM Cloud Functions and the integration we've crafted to bridge other runtimes with our reasoning core.

Please visit [Programming Watson Assistant](docs/LandingPage.md) for more information about EBA construction and building extensions using our sample agents included in this repository.

## Current Major Features ##

* EBA Core Reasoning Machine OOTB
 * Standards-based Semantic Ontology
 * Base-level language understanding
 * Domain-specific language understand 
 * Language extensions and annotations supported via embedded extention for business user
 * Disambiguation handling provided via enbedded extenstions for business user 
 * Automatic language translation for non-English input
 * Business organization-scoped persistence of language extensions
 * Data management provided via concept-linked actions (link any API/source to EBA core)
 * Automatic management of mispellings
 * Embedded thesaurus supports automated permutation handling within EBA core
 * Ontology-driven polymorphic actions and rules
 * Longitudinal and session based self-learning for increased accuracy in response
 * NLG-derived response framework -- NO hardcoded outputs!
* Embedded Functional Extensions
 * Track and alert business user for any data state change (basic anomaly detection)
 * Stats agent provides automated charting based on disparate vectors generated by human
 * Weather Data
 * Generic tone analysis 
* UI Core and Extensions
  * Slack integration
  * HTML/ReactJS Chatbot-style experience
 

## Prospective Features ##
* to be published


Please log issues you encounter with EBA, and if you have a contribution, please submit a pull request.

